Overview
The objective of the project is to predict climbing grades based on different features.
We aim to develop a predictive model that estimates climbing grades based on various climber attributes.

Data

The dataset used was obtained from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jordizar/climb-dataset

It contains 3 different archives.
routes_rated.csv. It has 9 features such as country and grade_mean.
grades_conversion_table.csv. It contains 2 features; grade_id and grade_fra. This archive is used to convert from the data of the dataset to the french grading system.
climber_df.csv. This is where the most important features are such as height, weight, age, years climbing and maximum grade climbed. It has 16 features.

Analysis

Importance:
Accurate climbing grade predictions can enhance safety by helping climbers choose routes that match their skill level. Novice climbers can avoid overly challenging routes, reducing the risk of accidents, while experienced climbers can find routes that provide the appropriate level of challenge to further develop their skills
It can also be used for route recommendations, competition and event planning, research and analysis. Climbing grade predictions can serve as valuable data for researchers studying climbing trends and performance over time.


Challenges:

It is hard to have an accurate prediction with the information on the dataset, I think that in order to have a valuable grade prediction we should also have information about the capabilities of the climber such as finger strength tests, pull strength test and other various tests.
Given this limitations this predictions should be taken with caution.

Machine Learning Models
Briefly introduce the five machine learning regressors you used for prediction:

SVC(): Support Vector Classifier
RandomForestRegressor(): Random Forest Regressor
MLPRegressor(): Multi-Layer Perceptron Regressor
KNeighborsRegressor(): K-Nearest Neighbors Regressor
LinearRegression(): Linear Regression
Model Training
Explain how you split the data into training and testing sets and any cross-validation techniques you used. Mention if you tuned hyperparameters for each model.
